# SMART PATIENT HEALTH MONITORING SYSTEM

Among the applications that Internet of Things (IoT) facilitated to the world, Healthcare applications are most important. In general, IoT has been widely used to interconnect the advanced medical resources and to offer smart and effective healthcare services to the people. The advanced sensors can be either worn or be embedded onto the body of the patients, so as to continuously monitor their health.

The information collected in such manner, can be analysed, aggregated and mined to do the early prediction of diseases. The processing algorithms assist the physicians for the personalization of treatment and it helps to make the health care economical, at the same ime, with improved outcomes. Firstly, in this paper, our goal is to create an efficient yet economical health monitoring system that provides the service by which we can be able to monitor and analyse our health vitals at any place and at any time in the palm of our hand. We can also be able to share the health vital information to our health-care doctor or our loved ones, so in case of emergencies, there will be an opportunity for the known people to take required measures. Also, in this paper, we highlight the challenges in the implementation of IoT health monitoring system in real world. The main objective of this Smart Patient Health monitoring system is to create a product with simple electronic architecture and less power usage (By using ESP32 WROOM-32 Module) and at the user’s side it is aimed to establish a patient accessible User-Interface.

The MCU (Microcontroller Unit) which is planned here is ESP32 WROOM-32 Module. ESP32 is an efficient microcontroller. It is an updated version of ESP8266(Node MCU).
It can handle up to 4Mb of Flash Memory, that is more than enough to handle our proposed sensors. Keeping our requirements as well as capabilities of Microcontroller in check, we selected the supported sensors which are: Temperature sensor (DS18B20): The DS18B20 digital thermometer provides 9-bit to 12-bit Celsius temperature measurements and has an alarm function with non-volatile userprogrammable upper and lower trigger points.

ECG Sensor (AD8232): The AD8232 is an integrated signal conditioning block for ECG and other biopotential measurement applications. It is designed to extract, amplify, and filter small biopotential signals in the presence of noisy conditions, such as those created by motion or remote electrode placement. Oximeter sensor (MAX30100): MAX30100 is an integrated pulse oximetry and heartrate monitor sensor solution. It integrates two LEDs (IR and Red), a photodetector (Red), optimised optics, and low-noise analog signal processing to detect pulse oximetry and heart-rate signals.

We decided to test each sensor individually with ESP32 and then finally we want to integrate all 3 sensors together with the microcontroller. First we would observe the
output in the serial monitor (virtual or physical) and then we would proceed to the IOT dashboard. Finally, when every thing is in its position, well and working, then we would proceed with the PCB designing and fabrication process. And the design software we planned to use is Proteus 8
